---
layout: post
permalink: /2023/read
---
Until a few years ago (sometime near the end of 2020) the only books I had read were the ones I had been forced to read while in school, and I hated reading every single one of them.
At first it was simply because I was being forced to, but eventually it grew to become an irrational dislike of every book supported only by the memories of school.

After high school I started to become interested in certain books, and at this time the hurdle was less the memories and more the struggle of creating a reading habit.

Choosing to start a book felt like a commitment—a *very* long one.
I would start a book, read about 20 pages in one or two days, then stop.
A week would pass, then another, and by then I didn't remember what I'd read and was not interested in picking it up again.
This happened a couple of times, sometimes with the same book.

By 2020 I was watching a lot of youtube videos on productivity—while not being productive at all, but let's stay on track and leave that story for later—and many of them were about habits, particularly about *how* to build them.

Then one day later that year, while chatting with a friend, he mentioned how he had read [Eragon](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113436.Eragon), a book I knew and was interested in.
However, like many others, I just hadn't even tried to read it given my experience at failing to read books.

I told him I would like to start reading but I just couldn't read more than a few pages of any book, to which he replied something along the lines of: "Ah. Well, you'll start with this one. I'll take it over to your house today!"
And... he did.

Since he had gone to the trouble of brining it to my house, I thought I should at least give it a try, but this time, with a twist.
With all those habit forming ideas that I had got from the productivity videos, I decided to read 10 pages per day.

The book had about 500 pages, which ironically was far longer than any of the ones I had tried reading before. 
Seeing it as 10 pages every day however, made the task seem much easier.
So that very day, before going to sleep, I sat on my bed, turned on the lamp and read 10 pages.
Then the following day I did the same, then the day after that, and so a habit began.

It didn't took long for the habit's reason of existence to shift from "because I have to" to "because I'm looking forward to reading it".
On some days I read far more than 10 pages, specially near the end.
But I always read *at least* 10.

Then, eventually, I finished it.
The first book I had ever set out to read out of my own volition, and it had taken me only a few days longer than a month (which resulted on an average of a little over 14 pages per day).

That day I messaged my friend: "Hey, you know that book you borrowed me some time ago? I just finished it. Would you mind borrowing me the sequel?"

Now I love reading.
I dropped the 10 page rule for fiction.
Reading roughly for half an hour before bed on a regular day, but with no strict rule, sometimes more, sometimes less.
Though I stuck with the rule for non-fiction, which I read sometime during the day.

Why am I telling you this?
Actually, I'm not entirely sure.
Perhaps someone, somewhere, will be in the situation I once was, and by reading this will on a whim pick up a book and read while following a very simple 10-page rule.

But then again perhaps not.

Still, who knows?