---
layout: post
permalink: /less
---
I don't consider myself to be a minimalist.

I indulge in certain unnecessary things.
I have wireless headphones to listen to music while I'm walking, and I don't *need* them.
The wired headphones I use at home, when at the computer, work just fine.
But since the wireless ones are more practical to use outside, I go them.

However I do try to minimize the number of purchases of that kind that I make.
But my goal is not for it to reach zero, it's just for it to be *less*.

I like *less*, I like less a lot.

Either I've come to gradually like more of *less*, or I've come to gradually realize it.

Either way, I now actively try to have *less*.
To achieve it, the first obvious thing we can do, is to get rid of the things you don't use nor need.
The things that are needlessly taking up space, and that—just by existing—force you to go through them to reach the things that you *do* use or need.

Besides, even if you never use them, because they're there, you spare a second to consider it as a choice.
So by removing them you make deciding easier.
And to me it's just more enjoyable to not have every space occupied.

Having less choice, is also a nice benefit.
I don't enjoy spending time choosing.

Anyway, after those obvious things are gone, there're the sentimental things.
These are much harder to let go off.
But ultimately they're just taking up space.
You don't *need* the thing.
You know you won't use it anymore.
It's probably hidden in some drawer or closet anyway.
The only reason you even stumble upon it once a year, it's because you were searching for something *else* entirely!
You're just saving it because it makes you remember of times long gone.

Truth be told I have not gotten ridden of all those things.
But I've started to do it.
When I do, as a baby step, before getting rid of it, I take a photo to save it.
The image of it is what makes me recall those memories.
I do enjoy the feeling of nostalgia.
Of course a photo, and the actual object, aren't the same thing, but for me it's enough.
And I get to have *less*.
I get to feel better.

Having less releases time and energy that I can spend doing what I really want to do.

To me, truly, less is more.